Kala Khyakritanter also said, "This is not dull emptiness," Kala Khyakritanter said.
And so it is not blank, blank emptiness. It's sub-luministic clarity, completely united
target with that nature, and it is the absolute natural as it is. It is, and from that level,
and in the nuxin level, and all this nuxin is, beyond of the existing, non-existing,
beyond of the empty, not empty, is beyond of every, every duality consumption. It is only
well experienced by our own intelligence, awareness, and therefore this name is known
as then great emptiness, clarity, self-awareness, and awareness, emptiness, all the union of
emptiness and appearance, and so many terminologies used to refer to this own natural. And
therefore
that reason, again, is in the teaching, it is also known as the union of the body and that
teaching, as I taught, and here more as I taught quotations from the, from the Tantra and the
ordinary nature of the mind, is like sky, it's done that free from every conceptions, and this,
to discover this inner nature, many yoginis, yoginis use different methods, the method of the
skill women, method of the wisdoms, for the instruction, they will discover, is not something
that they will discover by the intellectual ways, is beyond of the intellectual ones, and this is
that discover the unborn true nature. And so it's not the, it's not the negation
status of the emptiness, it's not the subtle state of the mind, it is beyond of everything. This,
through that, and so therefore, we should not necessarily take that anyways, this only will,
therefore, to discover this in a natural, exactly as it is, you have to take the oral instructions,
oral transmissions, oral class, oral, yeah, instructions, other instructions from those
with their alarmas, who went to the highest state realization, realization of by the
Dzogin, and all Mahabhadras, you have to listen from that. So therefore, this is what the nature is
,
is, and that is the, nature is beyond of the every conceptions. And now, to do these practices,
again,
I will talk a little bit about, again, these meditations, as we've been talking about. And now,
as you said, when you first, of course, this, this is the directly pointing out teachings,
teachings,
teachings, immediately we're going to target, and then there we rest, relax. Once we discover that,
then that's fine. That means, when you discover the practice, or when you practice,
we have to have confidence. Confidence is very important, that for that reason,
in Gharap Doge's three words, what, first introducing inner nature, nature, and the second
tati tobji in it a bit. That means, you're just re-establishing your confidence, as you discover
the nature, nature. That means, there's nothing to go out, no matter whatever is happening,
happening.
In the teachings said, said, this nature is cannot be changed by the subject,
is cannot be changed by the object, no matter whatever is happening, whatever
happening around you, it is, it's within that. It's nothing went out. Once you see that,
once you have know that, then we're not going to bother anything. We're going to relax
on our cruise lines, exactly on that line, line, cruise, we're not going to evaporate with it.
If we start evaporating, that means our will is shaken. Once we have got the will,
we have to maintain. Maintaining. Maintaining is, I said many times, is meditation. Maintaining is
meditation. Dzokhi level, there's nothing constructively effort meditation. You have to
maintain that. Without shaking by any subtle tense turbulence, the arising drew to the our grasping
,
drew to the our habiji pattern. Even that happening is not going out, not changing the course,
not changing the nature. We have to be confident on our will. That's called
paichin todo ji. We have to have that confidence. We have to see everything, that's it, whatever
that is, there's nothing. In order to find out that, as I said, direct that introduction,
and as a great master that we need to receive the involvement, for the involvement,
or receive the instruction, you discover, you get the confidence, and relax that. Now we're not
going to learn that. That is one way. Another way to do that, even Dzokhi teaching, or those
practice lineage teachings, are very immediately approaching that. But however, then through the
analyzations that we went yesterday, through the analyzation, it's not analyzation as we do in
Mademaka teachings, as we do in those teachings of the Sutra teachings. We went to the target,
to the heart, from there we just established every voice. And there, again, in that, and then, as
he
said yesterday, this is not just the pharmacy, this is the voice and instructions of the great
those masters. And the examining of the mind's source, destination, and prison, suni and process,
you examine that. Because why you do this? Because make sure our will is not going to linger.
Our meditation is not going to linger. Everything is now mind, and mind is empty.
That is, that is what really established. Mind is empty, or mind is three-guide status.
Mind is three-guide. To make that confidence, realization, nagat realization. To make that,
so we went to the suni dosa. Song means where is coming, nay means, or dron means where is going,
and where it is. Where is now? And that means past, future, and present.
Present. If we look anywhere, mind is not at three-guide levels. Then we look out,
mind is outside, inside, to make sure that we're not going to linger in our meditation practice.
It's outside, it's inside, we check. Again, we didn't find. Inside, again, maybe I didn't say
yesterday, but inside check with physically, with emotionally check. Where is mind? In the
physical level, where is mind? Physical level. Emotional level, where is mind? Each level.
We didn't find anything. We, every time we pull out the source of grasping, root of grasping,
there is no mind. There is no mind. There is no mind. There is no mind. Now, where is this
no mind? No mind. No. Where is mind? Then, we uprooted everywhere. Now, we single out,
single out the mind. Where is mind? Mind is no mind. We didn't find anywhere, any place,
any logic. We never find, and did never find. All the Buddha's movies of the enlightened means,
never found, solid exists the mind at all. And the modern scientists, I don't define at all,
anyone purposes. That then, now we're completely reconcluded. Every chapter, every kind of like
might thinking mind is uprooted. There's no mind, and mind is now to look to the mind itself.
Where is this? What is mind? And to look at this mind, then the great master's minister says,
still we think, then every day's mind have to have some forms. So what forms? There's two forms,
form of color, form of forms. Color forms. What is white, yellow, red, blue, star? All the color,
we think none of those mind, none of those, none of those, none of those. One after another, they
're
known. And forming a level is rectangle, square, semicircle, all those forms, forms, none of those
minds. That uprooted everything now. Now, where is the mind? Mind. So there is no mind. But yet,
there is this mind, this intelligence. That's what the great master said, is nature is empty,
nature is clarity, nature is pervasive. All comparison. In the Zogji teaching,
that is what it is. It is empty, it is clarity, it is energetic. Yet, it is totally beyond
everything.
That's how the mystery of our self-born awareness, how that beauty is. This is beyond the death,
beyond the birth, beyond the getting old, beyond the sicknesses. It's beyond any reference point,
any regulators. It's totally that naturalistic. That is the mind. Now, once we discover that,
once we find out, now we are not going to linger in shaking and trembling of our
meditation. That means no doubt, no hesitations. No doubt, no hesitations. We are going to stay,
fearless as the mountain. That's what in the Zogji teaching, what's the name?
Montre Lang Vue. That is what it is. Vue is strong, not going to shake. Because it is that true,
we are staying on that truth. True. There is no longer of doubt, hesitation, might be this,
might be that, might. Because we search everywhere, we look everywhere, we have mascara everywhere,
and all the bodies of our dead, didn't find it. We can conquer the same as they did,
these great beings. Same thing, our small mind came the same way. So now, we have to relax,
we have to relax. When we are relaxing, that is the meditation. When we are relaxing,
this is necessary in the mind, then, particularly in the beginning of the time, our meditation,
then we will have three major experiences, periods that we go through. I mentioned that before too,
I mean those different things, but this time is called Nepa, in the Tibetan word, Nepa,
Jova and Rupa. These three things will come. You have to be aware of these three things.
This is aware. Nepa means abiding. Now you are resting, you are resting on that Vue. Vue.
That is Nepa. When you are resting in that Nepa, there is Jova. Jova is movement.
That means, when Jova comes, what do you have to do? You have to behold that. You have to
aware that. Rupa. Nepa, Jova, Rupa. This is the western world of those practice, masters of
practice
lineages. This is not just a valuable. It is a practical instrument. It is instructions, practical
instructions. We should take that very often. Nepa means abiding. Now, when we are resting in
mind, generally, there is two techniques that we all heard. I am not just you. I heard the two.
We all heard that. These are two techniques. Rinaldha in the Buddha teaching is known as
Samatha and Vibhachanas. Samatha and Vibhachanas. Dzogchi teaching is what? Dzogchi practice is
Vibhachana practice. It is a Vibhachana practice. Also, it is practice of the Dzogchi practice.
Many great masters say, in the same way, Kedipad is here, when you are meditating on
the Dzogchi states, Vibhachana and Samatha are united. Not just separated. What that means?
Kedipad said that too. He said, the aspect of, the abiding aspect of the mind is Samatha,
and seeing the nature of that mind, that aspect is Vibhachana is Toged. Therefore, it is
Samatha in the union, Samatha in Vibhachana, Toged. Toged. Toged. So, this is what. So, when you
relax
with that nature's mind, now when you relax with that nature's mind, mind's post is abiding. That
we do immediately. Now we meditate. That's what we say. We meditate. We meditate now. With good
postures,
with good things, we rest. The moment we meditate, most of us, Shiva comes.
Thought comes. Thought comes. That movement comes. What is the movement comes? All different
habit patterns. That of the past memories. That's something connected to us. Something that
is connected to us. There's something to do with our house, our kitchen, our garage, our garage,
our kitchen, our neighbor, our friends, our outing. What's called a dining? Dining. Dining. Out
dining? Those
pretty, pretty wettest young boy and young girls. And whatever. Something should come up. A moment
we sit. It looks like all comes up. Comes up. That happened many times. And we, wondering that,
follow with those, trying to think what is named that in the teaching. Distracted. That is
destruction. This is not destruction. Out of, it is inner destruction. Now destruction comes.
When we wander with that, then we lost our will. We are wandering the outskirts of the display
of the rupa, or in other words, duality. We are wandering. We are wandering. We are maintaining
that. We destruct it. Moment that happening, what we have to do? That is called rupa. We have to,
aware that. We have to see that. Immediately aware that. Don't let, don't let to go power.
Power. That is then rupa. And now, when this yuwa comes, the nearby is abiding.
Yuwa is a movement. When yuwa comes, what the terminology in the teaching used, or Buddha used?
It is seungwa and gopa. Seungwa and gopa. Seungwa means drowsy. Seungwa is two arrows,
two magical arrows, mistakes during our meditations. Seungwa is sinking mines. Drowness,
drowsy, sleepy. Kind of all those are not clarity, not brilliant. Not those are all known as
drowsy. Moment we start sitting, our mind becomes kind of dull and we fall asleep. Almost sleeping.
Sleepy. That is, again, one of the arrows. Arrows. Second arrow is, I already said,
this gopa. Gopa is scattered mind. Wild. Wild minds and distracts. Very ruffly, distract. There is
dripping of the distractions. Very disturbed and then medium and very subtle. Sutter distractions.
Those big ones then related with emotions. Not just a garage, not just a restaurant,
not just only our dining room things, but something related with emotion.
Completely our mind is carried with anger or with anxiety, worry, something kind of bursting in our
head. Completely burst at that. When that happened, we have to be storm ourselves,
resettle, settle ourselves, and walk with strong devotions. Again, any of those things comes in
the teachings. Devotions. Feel the strong presence of the gopa. In Bodhi Madhu, all the kirirate
teachers
must see that. All the bada shabtam, dara. Feel their blessing, vowels. Rest strengthening.
Why am I wasting my time? I have enough time to think of these things. Other time, I'm not going
to think that now. I'm going to give, break, package into my own peace of mind, this mind,
and let that kind of with courage, with commitment, with strength, I'm going to rest. Rest that.
And then second thought is something related with personal things. And then subtle things,
many of those things, and sometimes, ridiculous things, unnecessary things comes out in the mind.
But any of those, whatever it is, it's destructive. It's destructive from our meditation,
from our dzokti meditation, from our samad meditation. Therefore, we should rest strengthening
our courage, commitment, confidence, joy in the applications, and then,
meditate. Practice. Meditate. Feel strongly. And think of the pull, pull those legs. If it's too
much destructive, thinking of these. Like poor, poor inner second thought, impermanent, life is
precious,
impermanent, cause and effort is inevitable. Or impermanent, thinking of the impermanent,
how much things are changing, how many things are wrong, why I worry, why I think I have to settle,
settle, and I have to stop myself, joy. And with this stone, again, as it's devoted,
or body, or love and kindness compared to boundless love, boundless joy, boundless appreciation,
boundless economy, all those we would bring up those shorter and denser with meditate.
So this is what this neva, juba, and rupa, that is. And then, in order to do this, if still there's
a lot of concentrating, a little bit difficult, then use, as Buddha taught, techniques of the
concentrating right in front of your, in front of you, maybe just in front of you, the convenience
area, hold some objects on your mental states, or put some small objects, objects, and concentrate
to that. Concentrate strongly, your mind joined with I, I joined to that one piece of object.
In a way, triangle level, strongly concentrating to that, and stay that, trying to stay that state
as a pope, or one minute, one minute, trying to stay there, strongly, strongly with that,
concentrate
that. And if that strong state is quite good, then you can release that, then relax, just rest,
rest. Again, you can maybe concentrate strongly, hold something in the mental state, and stay,
stay. And then that has become quite good, and then release, and then the rupa status, free from
every reference point. Relax, bring more clarity, that's what it teaches you. Relax, relax means,
relax the body, relax the wind or the breathing, that means keep normal breathing, and relax mind,
mind reduces every conjugate level, and now settle in one person's status, person's state,
and one moment of the person's status, one moment of the person's state, and then relax,
and relax, and don't hold anything. And it's okay to say, don't think, don't hold, and relax.
Relax means everything is relaxed, that means nothing particularly relaxed about that, but
everything becomes natural, exactly natural, where the nature is, the body becomes natural to all
the
systems, and when the movements become natural, exactly way, and mind totally stays in the person's
state of the moment, present status, relax. When it's relaxed like that, and then trying to
stabilize
that, stay there with the awareness. Awareness is, you keep, awareness of mindfulness as distantly,
in the teaching, what's it, Kirma used also to chant that praise, praise, distantly have the
mindfulness watching your mind, not closely watching, mindfulness always constantly kind of
mindful, using the mindfulness, but distantly watching your mind, your meditation by the
mindfulness. The great teachers use examples, when you put, when you do, when you go up with the
animals, animals, use that same technique, when you go up with the animals, and when you put those
in beautiful grassland, or wherever comfortable grasslands, then you pull back, you're not going
to have to stay behind, right behind the animals, pull back, and relax yourself, and just the
distance is watching the animals, same way, distantly watching the your meditation, or the
Dzokki meditation, not necessarily staying all the time, but always, you're really not left
distracted by any means, relax, pray, and always in the teaching said, relax, we relax with clarity
,
relax with clarity, that I told you other day, in the Dzokki Toga, so not Toga, Tukkyu practices,
Tukkyu practice, particularly special and stockings of the Tukkyu meditation is what,
immovable body, immovable of the senses, that means not expanding, not inward,
drawn in, keep open, exactly senses the way they are, so immovable senses, immovable of the
mind, relax, and when you do the immovable way in the teaching, bring a little clarity, clarity,
kind of fresh energy, freshness, that means the ventilation is so open, that breathing
pressures are moving, you're allowing that, waking up the energy, power of the five muscles,
five muscles, intelligence allowing, not block it, not block it, not cry, open that opportunity,
and relax that, those are the teachings, so therefore, therefore, when we meditate again,
with that way, trying to keep them, meditate with good qualities, qualities, maybe content is good,
call it, really trying to do that, so now again, when we're wrestling our mind, it's abiding,
and then Joa, Joa is movement, thought will come, it's natural, and there is a way thought comes,
I said the other day, the great was, there is five different ways, the thought will
wrap me whole, and then gradually settle there, that all comes, but don't let destruct,
this is our responsibility, don't let happen, even we can keep our mind for 10 seconds,
15 seconds, that's good, don't let go, and be aware of that, and when that happens, if the
teachings
say, don't worry, feel bad, don't feel bad, don't kind of blame, or why this and that, all those
things, that's just a part of nature, part of the nature that we are going through, it's nothing,
therefore, we're not detecting that, we're aware of that, that means we are practicing,
that means we're practicing, it's good, it's nothing wrong, don't blame, don't feel bad,
don't be disappointed, but we strengthen the joy and appreciation and good things, keep opening,
that's it, and keep the mind from all those beautiful things, and relax, that is what the
Dzokin practices in the teachings, and then we can advance and gradually come very beautiful,
and many minds will settle, and that is a practitioner, and that is my brief teaching
for today. Thank you.